# Hexageon
An in-progress hex-mapping software for D&amp;D and other role-playing games
Pronounced like dungeon

Hi everyone. For my project, I plan to make a hex-mapping application for tabletop role playing games. For those of you that are unfamiliar: game masters (GMs) for games like Dungeons and Dragons will sometimes use a map with a hexagonal grid as a tool to help track and plan the adventure. Each hex represents a certain size area, usually 1 or 6 miles, and has an icon representing the area's environment or a notable structure. These games have rules for traveling that are effected by the environment, so a hex-map is sometimes necessary for the GM to keep track of the current game state. There are some common tools GMs use for this, usually Hex Kit or Hexographer. I've used both of these before, and neither really had the tools I needed to easily create a map the way I wanted to. Hexographer has some interesting random generation tools, but it isn't very user friendly and it lacks customization options. Hex Kit is the opposite, being much more user friendly with a host of customization options, but no random generation tools. Both programs also share one fatal flaw: they do not print well. Many people play Dungeons and Dragons online, but I play with pen and paper, these programs do not have any easy way to get things like map keys and location notes onto a printable page.

The application I plan to make works as follows: the user will be greeted by a menu asking how they would like to start mapping. The user can then choose to start from scratch, use a ready made template, a randomly generated map, or to import an existing map. The user will then be brought to the map editor. It will consist of an 8.5 by 11 inch page with 4 hexes per inch, and a number of tools for painting the grid with different environment icons. Features I would like include: the ability to edit multiple hexes at once, the ability to have notes for hexes or groups of hexes, the ability to randomly generate a text description of a hex based on a theme by pulling information from a database, the ability to import custom environment tiles, the ability to export the map as a .PNG file or .txt file that contains the user's notes and the information needed to rebuild the map in the application so it can be imported.

My primary concern going into this is that this project is way to ambitions. I've never worked on an application like this before, and I have no idea how much work it will take to make this idea a reality. But this is something I've been thinking about for a while and it's time I actually tried to do it. I want to challenge myself this semester, so even if I end up with a bare-bones shell of what I'm imaging, I at least want to try.

I look forward to your thoughts.
